Languages

R: Computer language with a focus on statistical data analysis.
	. tidyverse/tidydata
	.leaflet
	.sf
	.shiny

SQL: Structured Query Language. Used to manage relational databases and extract data from them in an efficient manner. Optimal data storage
 schemas/structures have similarities with the tidyverse concepts. Screenshot of databases demonstrating primary and foreign keys. Example of speed
increase of dashbaord after correctly indexing fields.

Javascript: Controls interactivity in web pages. Example of some Javascript on page.

HTML: Uses "tags" to create the objects that appear on web page. These objects make up the building blocks of web pages. Tags are structured in a hierarchy
 using the "DIV" (division) tag.

CSS: Creates rules that are then attached to HTML tags. These rules are used to control the appearance of the tags on the web page. Affecting things such as
 colour, size and spacing. The CSS code can be imbedded directly into a web page within "STYLE" tags. Or more commonly stored in a seperate file which
 the web page file will link to, called a CSS stylesheet. This allows the single file to set rules shared across multiple web pages.

PHP: The language used to communicate between a "client" browser and databases within the "server".

Programs

Apache HTTP Web Server: Handles web traffic to server. Processing incoming requests and serving web pages.

Nginx: Web server. Processes requests faster than Apache and provides load balancing. Nginx is used as a "reverse proxy server" for Apache
 on this site. Meaning incoming traffic traffic to Apache is passed to Nginx within the server to process and serve requests. Passing the results back
 to Apache to send to the client. This adds an extra layer of security and helps distribute requests efficiently.

Google Analytics: Tracks traffic to web pages. Uses snippets of Javascript code to record data on users and send this to a google analytics account to be stored.

MySQL:

PuTTY:

SSH:

Providers

Digital Ocean: 

Rstudio: Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for the R language. Also known as a GUI (Graphical User Interface). Provides point and click
 functionality for R, assists in developing in R by putting scripts, outputs, packages, connections and help pages all in one place.



